---
layout: post
title: Git-Fu
date: 2022-06-24 0:00:00 +200 # +100 in winter
categories: [documentation]
tags: [documentation, github, website, gitlab,git] # TAG names should always be lowecase
---

# Git-fu

## Configuration:


```bash
git config --global user.name "Your name here"
git config --global user.email "your_email@example.com"
```

I also do:

```bash
git config --global color.ui true
git config --global core.editor emacs
```
The first of these will enable colored output in the terminal; the second tells git that you want to use emacs.

Look to see if you have files ~/.ssh/id_rsa and ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub.
If not, create such public/private keys: Open a terminal/shell and type:

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "your_email@example.com"
```
Copy your public key (the contents of the newly-created id_rsa.pub file) into your clipboard.

Paste your ssh public key into your github account settings.

Go to your github Account Settings
Click “SSH Keys” on the left.
Click “Add SSH Key” on the right.
Add a label (like “My laptop”) and paste the public key into the big text box.
In a terminal/shell, type the following to test it:

```bash
ssh -T git@github.com
```
If it says something like the following, it worked:

```bash
Hi username! You have successfully authenticated, but Github doesnot provide shell access.
```

Use:
```bash
git clone git@github.com:agrestic1/repo
```
instead of `https://github.com/agrestic1/repo`

To change the remote from http to ssh:
```bash
git remote set-url origin git@github.com:agrestic1/repo
git remote -v
```

## Update your fork

Szenario: You have forked a repository and did some changes. In the meantime also the original developer did some updates in his repository. You want to takeover these.

Here we use a rebase, so our commits are then added to the new (updated) base.

Quelle: [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7244321/how-do-i-update-or-sync-a-forked-repository-on-github](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/7244321/how-do-i-update-or-sync-a-forked-repository-on-github)

Add the remote, call it "upstream":
```bash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/whoever/whatever.git
```
Fetch all the branches of that remote into remote-tracking branches
```bash
git fetch upstream
```
Make sure that you're on your main branch:
```bash
git checkout main
```
Rewrite your main branch so that any commits of yours that
aren't already in upstream/main are replayed on top of that
other branch:
```bash
git rebase upstream/main
```
If you don't want to rewrite the history of your master branch, (for example because other people may have cloned it) then you should replace the last command with `git merge upstream/main`. However, for making further pull requests that are as clean as possible, it's probably better to rebase.

---
If you've rebased your branch onto upstream/main you may need to force the push in order to push it to your own forked repository on GitHub. You'd do that with:
```bash
git push -f origin main
```
You only need to use the `-f` the first time after you've rebased.

## Git –assume-unchanged
Quelle [https://thisbailiwick.com/git-assume-unchanged/](https://thisbailiwick.com/git-assume-unchanged/)

When installing apps locally some files have data which is unique to your install path or domain. For example I installed our app at EasyRx locally and the yaml setting for the domain used for cookies was tracked by git. I changed the value in my local install but then it showed up as a change in git which I definitely don’t want to commit.

There is a temporary option.
```bash
git update-index --assume-unchanged /path/to/file.yml
```
Setting `--assume-unchanged` to the file will effectively hide those changes.

However, be aware, if you `git add` the specific file it will add it to the files staged for commit. If you just do a blanket `git commit -a` it won’t add the file. Of course you need to remember that it’s set that way!

---
Let’s go over a quick example of using the command. Changes have been made to a few files in my working directory:
```bash
$ git status
# On branch master
#
# Changed but not updated:
#   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
#
#	modified:   README.textile
#	modified:   Rakefile
#	modified:   TODO
#
no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

If I ran git commit -a from here, all of the files would be added into the new commit. However, I want to temporarily ignore the changes in one of the files:
```bash
$ git update-index --assume-unchanged README.textile   
$ git status
# On branch master
#
# Changed but not updated:
#   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
#
#	modified:   Rakefile
#	modified:   TODO
#
no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```
So if we commit the work now then turn the flag off, we can see that Git didn’t lose the original changes to the README. From there, you could now add them into a new commit, or revert back to the latest copy.

```bash
$ git update-index --no-assume-unchanged README.textile
$ git status
# On branch master
# Your branch is ahead of 'origin/master' by 4 commits.
#
# Changed but not updated:
#   (use "git add <file>..." to update what will be committed)
#
#	modified:   README.textile
#
no changes added to commit (use "git add" and/or "git commit -a")
```

## Clone a single branch

```bash
git clone -b <branchname> --single-branch <remote-repo-url> <foldername>
```

Then, if the repo was updated, to update your local copy do
```bash
git pull
```

Special case: The `gh-pages` branch is generated by an github automation. This does a "forced update", so it does not commit changes, insead it deletes the old branch and creates a new one with every build. Therefore `git pull` with it's default `merge` setting won't work. To pull new changes we have to rebase with:
```bash
git pull --rebase
```
or set default pull setting to `rebase`
```bash
git config pull.rebase true
```
And in future we can just:
```bash
git pull
```

## .gitignore
The various files in your project directory that you’re not tracking in git should be indicated in a .gitignore file.

You don’t have to have a .gitignore file, but if you don’t, those files will show up every time you type git status.

Each subdirectory can have its own .gitignore file, too.

Also, you can have a global such in your home directory; I use ~/.gitignore_global, which contains:
```bash
*~
.*~
folder/
folder/**/*.json
```
You have to tell git about the global .gitignore file:

```bash
git config --global core.excludesfile ~/.gitignore_global
```